# example/minima - OrganL 0.9b pre-release

This directory contains a collection of meshes that are formed using various iterations of the organl starting with a unit sphere and restraining the surface to that of a unit sphere and modifying the volume. These generate the results comparable to Fig 6 of the manuscript. 

Following is the run to generate an rbc-like structure from the a sphere:


## HOW TO RUN:

1. Copy the appropriate **organl** binary for your platform from `/binaries/` into this folder.
2. Rename *control_e.txt* to *control.txt*, with the desired surface-volume ratio.
3. Run on commandline: `[organl] ssphere_orient.obj CHF`


## Brief Description:

- This run uses Constrained Helfrich Functional - `CHF`, requiring a total of 4 energy functional parameters (set in *control.txt* under lines headed with `E`).
- The starting point of the stimulation is an spherical mesh (*ssphere_orient.obj*).
- The folder contains relevant files for a sample run to generate an rbc-like structure from the a sphere, as decribed below. Other structures may be similarly generated by modifying the *control_e.txt*.
- Typically results in an rbc-like structure similar to *rbc.obj*.


## Important Parameters:
> Since there is a high degree of non-linearity in the stimulation, a precise behavioural evaluation of parametric values is not possible. The following may be viewed as a rough baseline to work on. Read the Manual for a detailed take on running stimulations and finding good values for the parameters.

- `E DEF 0 XX` - sets the value of $A_0$. Compare DCH and CHF energies to check if $A_0$ values are reasonable. Higher values results in supressing the variations in the stimulation.
- `E DEF 1 XX` - sets the value of $V_0$. Lower values is seen to suppress the stimulation. 
- `E LAMBDA 0 XX` used to denote the constraint on area (Surface Tension). Lower value tends to give a predominant rbc-like structure.
- `E LAMBDA 1 XX` used to denote the constraint on volume (pressure). Lower $\lambda_1$ is seen to converge to a dumbell like structure with a wide neck.
